4.6 release blog post (#1193)
ember-learn/ember-blog: content/ember-4-6-released.md

---
title: Ember 4.5 Released
authors:
  - jen-weber
date: 2022-07-13T21:00:00.000Z
tags:
  - releases
  - '2022'
  - version-4-x
---

Today the Ember project is releasing version 4.6 of Ember.js, Ember Data, and Ember CLI. <!-- Block start: Uncomment if an LTS candidate --><!--This release of Ember.js is an LTS (Long Term Support) candidate. LTS candidates prioritize stability over the addition of new features, and have an extended support schedule.--><!-- Block end -->

> This release kicks off the 4.6+0.1 beta cycle for all sub-projects. We encourage our community (especially addon authors) to help test these beta builds and report any bugs before they are published as a final release in six weeks' time. The [ember-try](https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-try) addon is a great way to continuously test your projects against the latest Ember releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release kicks off the 4.7 beta cycle for all sub-projects. We encourage our community (especially addon authors) to help test these beta builds and report any bugs before they are published as a final release in six weeks' time. The [ember-try](https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-try) addon is a great way to continuously test your projects against the latest Ember releases.
```

You can read more about our general release process here:

- [Release Dashboard](http://emberjs.com/releases/)
- [The Ember Release Cycle](https://blog.emberjs.com/new-ember-release-process/)
- [The Ember Project](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-project-at-2-0/)
- [Ember LTS Releases](https://blog.emberjs.com/announcing-embers-first-lts/)

---

## Ember.js

Ember.js is the core framework for building ambitious web applications.

### Changes in Ember.js 4.6

Ember.js 4.6 is an incremental, backwards compatible release of Ember with bug fixes, performance improvements, and minor deprecations.

#### Bug Fixes

> Ember.js 4.6 introduced 0 bug fixes.

Reviewer: Two bugfixes - [#20125](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/pull/20125) [BUGFIX] Replace deprecated substr() method with substring() method.
and - [#20120](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/pull/20120) [BUGFIX] Adjust uniqueId() implementation to only generate valid selectors.

Author: awesome, thank you! these are now incorporated.

> #### Features

Reviewer: No features, no deprecations

Author: Got it, thanks!

Ember.js 4.6 introduced 2 features.

1. Feature description
2. Feature description

#### Deprecations

Ember.js 4.6 introduced 0 deprecations.

<!-- Block start: If there were no deprecations, remove this block -->

Deprecations are added to Ember.js when an API will be removed at a later date. Each deprecation has an entry in the deprecation guide describing the migration path to a more stable API. Deprecated public APIs are not removed until a major release of the framework.

Consider using the [ember-cli-deprecation-workflow](https://github.com/mixonic/ember-cli-deprecation-workflow) addon if you would like to upgrade your application without immediately addressing deprecations.

<!-- Block end -->

For more details on changes in Ember.js 4.6, please review the [Ember.js 4.6.0 release page](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/releases/tag/v4.6.0).

---

## Ember Data

> 

Reviewer: We'll be releasing with ember-data 4.4 again

You can read more about our general release process here:

- [Release Dashboard](http://emberjs.com/releases/)
- [The Ember Release Cycle](https://blog.emberjs.com/new-ember-release-process/)
- [The Ember Project](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-project-at-2-0/)
- [Ember LTS Releases](https://blog.emberjs.com/announcing-embers-first-lts/)

---

## Ember.js

Ember.js is the core framework for building ambitious web applications.

### Changes in Ember.js 4.6

Ember.js 4.6 is an incremental, backwards compatible release of Ember with bug fixes.

#### Bug Fixes

Ember.js 4.6 introduced 2 bug fixes.

- [Replace deprecated `substr()` method](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/pull/20125) with `substring()` method
- [Adjust `uniqueId()` implementation](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/pull/20120) to only generate valid selectors. [`querySelector`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document/querySelector) does not work if the first character is a number, so
now we ensure that the first character is a letter.

#### Features

> Ember.js 4.6 introduced 0 features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ember.js 4.6 introduced 0 features.

```

#### Bug Fixes

Ember Data 4.5 introduced 9 bug fixes. Additional Details are in the [release notes](https://github.com/emberjs/data/releases/tag/v4.5.0).

* [#8083](https://github.com/emberjs/data/pull/8083) [BUGFIX] Serialize null array items as empty strings 
* [#7901](https://github.com/emberjs/data/pull/7901) <!-- alex ignore waiter -->`waiter` should be always on
* [#8042](https://github.com/emberjs/data/pull/8042) `RecordState` cleanup 
* [#8008](https://github.com/emberjs/data/pull/8008) schedule `watchTypeIfUnseen` to prevent loop
* [#8013](https://github.com/emberjs/data/pull/8013) Fix generated import paths for test setup functions in addons
* [#8025](https://github.com/emberjs/data/pull/8025) Fix `PromiseProxy` Deprecation for Save ([@runspired](https://github.com/runspired))
* [#7902](https://github.com/emberjs/data/pull/7902) test for async hasMany does not trigger relationship fetch
* Pass correct args to `keyFor<Attribute|Relationship>` when normalizing
* [#7945](https://github.com/emberjs/data/pull/7945) fix for an issue with computed chains not updated for async hasMany loading

#### Features

Ember Data 4.5 introduced improvements to build size.

> Users of solely the core of Ember Data may expect their builds to be 35-50% smaller. This is due to most of the legacy support for `@ember-data/model` having now found its final location at home in that package instead of within the `@ember-data/store package`. The size of `@ember-data/store` is reduced from ~16kb compressed to ~9.5kb compressed, potentially a little less depending on what deprecations are resolved and what other packages are present. We expect the core to continue to shrink as we complete the final stages of removing `InternalModel`, complete implementations for recently accepted deprecation RFCs, and introduce `RecordDataV2`.

Author: @runspired can you help scope/qualify this statement?

> Users of solely the core of Ember Data may expect their builds to be 35-50% smaller.

What does this mean? Is it that a specific ember-data package is 35-50% smaller? Thanks!

Reviewer 2: Broadly speaking this means the store package. It currently also means ember-inflector as that's still a required dependency though it being required has been RFCs to deprecate. Notably users of ember-m3 tend to use only the store package.

Author: incorporated, thank you
